---
title:  "Accessing the Resource"
categories:
  - Android
tags:
  - Android
  - Resource
---


## Accessing the Resource

Details: [Android 문서 참조;](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/resources/providing-resources)

Accessing your app resources
Once you provide a resource in your application, you can apply it by referencing its resource ID. All resource IDs are defined in your project's R class, which the aapt tool automatically generates.

When your application is compiled, aapt generates the R class, which contains resource IDs for all the resources in your res/ directory. For each type of resource, there is an R subclass (for example, R.drawable for all drawable resources), and for each resource of that type, there is a static integer (for example, R.drawable.icon). This integer is the resource ID that you can use to retrieve your resource.

Although the R class is where resource IDs are specified, you should never need to look there to discover a resource ID. A resource ID is always composed of:

The resource type: Each resource is grouped into a "type," such as string, drawable, and layout. For more about the different types, see Resource Types.
The resource name, which is either: the filename, excluding the extension; or the value in the XML android:name attribute, if the resource is a simple value (such as a string).
There are two ways you can access a resource:

In code: Using a static integer from a sub-class of your R class, such as:
`R.string.hello`
string is the resource type and hello is the resource name. There are many Android APIs that can access your resources when you provide a resource ID in this format. See Accessing Resources in Code.

In XML: Using a special XML syntax that also corresponds to the resource ID defined in your R class, such as:
`@string/hello`
string is the resource type and hello is the resource name. You can use this syntax in an XML resource any place where a value is expected that you provide in a resource. See Accessing Resources from XML.
